---
layout: post
title: "Being vegan is easy"
date: 2014-12-28 18:34:50
categories: learn
---
The one thing you can only understand **after** becoming vegan is that it’s not hard at all.

Only people who are not vegan think it’s hard to be vegan.

Once you stop pretending to yourself you don’t know. Once you stop ignoring the obvious. Once you acknowledge the fact that your “food” had a mother, feelings, and an intrinsic desire to live. Once  you start questioning wether it’s really ok to torture, rape, enslave, and murder beings who have just as much personality as any cat or dog you’ve ever played with. Once you realize you’ve lived in the “meatrix” your entire life...

When that happens, the only hard part about becoming vegan is to look at what you’ve done. I won’t lie... This moment is difficult. When you realize that our entire society is built in a way that allowed you to consider yourself an “animal lovers” while at the same exact time subjugating **billions** of animals to untold levels of agony.

Although the weight of this realization never completely goes away, once you are vegan, you don’t have much time to mourn... A feeling of urgency sets in. Old statistics and very conservative estimates tell you that over 27.5 millions land animal are killed every single **day** in the US alone. That’s more than 3 times the NYC population. Every single day. And if you include fish, the numbers get so huge that lives are counted in metric tones. It is overwhelming... But giving up is not an option. Because there is no acceptable alternative to complete and unequivocal animal liberation.

So you become active.

It’s not hard to be vegan. It’s about as hard as not killing someone. When you finally understand that you were directly contributing to torture, rape, slavery, and murder. When the veils of normalcy, convenience, and addiction are lifted. When you fully embrace what you already knew deep down.

When that happens. It’s liberating.

You don’t have to come up with shaky justifications involving lions and zebras anymore. You don’t have to try to comfort yourself with “cycle of life” excuses while conveniently ignoring the reality of factory farming. You don’t have to work so hard to remain ignorant.

You can start to fully embrace your true nature. A huge weight on your shoulders you didn’t even know was there just vanishes. You gain clarity. Mindfulness and compassion are not just abstract concepts to cultivate anymore. They translate in practical actions you need to take.

But that’s just the beginning...